for 50 years the village of barwon kala
hadn't seen
a single wedding wow 121
the highest number of unmarried men in
the entire state of bihar india
this so-called village of bachelors
wasn't a paradise for singles to enjoy
their solitude by
conscious choice no it was much more
complicated than that
nobody came to this remote little pocket
because it was so
cut off from the rest of the world for a
long time
the village didn't have electricity
water phone network
healthcare center they didn't even have
a road into and
out of the place if residents wanted to
go to the closest town
nearly 30 miles away they had to walk
through winding hills
and a dense jungle for four hours a
place with
pretty much no link to the outside world
that you can barely get into
didn't exactly entice visitors let alone
people wanting to get married there and
settle down locals tried to request a
new road
but nobody could help them meanwhile the
number of bachelors
of all ages mind you kept growing until
they decided to take matters into their
own hands
in january 2008 groups of villagers got
together
chisels hammers and shovels in hand one
group pushed big boulders to the side
while another hammered them down into
little pieces to lay the path
a few years later they celebrated the
construction of a modest but usable
four mile road only there was a problem
the area they were building in fell into
a designated wildlife sanctuary where
construction was banned
the forest authority wasn't happy and
reacted promptly
almost a decade later in february 2017
a historic event took place one man
named aj
brought his partner home after their
wedding tractors and motorcycles
accompanied the groom to the bride's
village over 60 miles away
the next day they came to barwancala
through the road aj and other villagers
had created
he was the first person from his village
to marry someone
and move them in a half century another
bachelor from the village had gotten
married back in 2012
but because there was no road yet they
stayed in his partner's town
until march 2017 since the path had been
laid
the couple loaded their stuff on a
tractor and went to the man's home
there is another mysterious place in
india the village of godini
it has around 2 000 households in total
but it's got one of the highest rates of
twin births in the world
this medical mystery started around 70
years ago
and scientists began speculating on what
was causing it
some put it down to pollutants in the
village's water
but others refute that because the
newborns are perfectly healthy
a public health practitioner conducted a
survey there in 2008
he recorded 264 pairs of twins in the
village
the number has now reached 450. he too
believed there was some kind of chemical
or component in the air
water or ground that was causing this
phenomenon
but strangely enough many women who left
the village
still ended up having twins his initial
theory turned out to be
wrong this oddity was somehow linked to
the people themselves
not the environment to this day genetic
researchers from all over the world are
studying the twins
to understand why this is happening it
still remains a mystery
a similar phenomenon happened in two
other villages in completely different
parts of the world
one in nigeria and the other in brazil
in the nigerian case
a chemical was found inside yam peelings
that might have caused the spike in twin
births
the hillary bazaar in india's richest
village
in 2015 it had 235 families
60 of them were millionaires a few years
before that
the place was drought prone the local
economy had plummeted
and more than 90 percent of the
residents left
around the same time the only person
with a postgraduate degree in the
village took
charge inspired by someone else's work
in another indian village
he started rain water harvesting and
water conservation programs
locals built dams and buns to create a
spectacular irrigation system
the groundwater levels rose and the
village began to prosper
now the residents lives had transformed
and people came back from the cities to
their old villages
the number of families has increased
from 90 to 235.
instead of employing laborers they
collaborate by working on each other's
farms
punsari is a village of six thousand
people in gujarat
it's been dubbed a model village because
it has the facilities of a major city
so much that officials study its
development to create similar villages
all over the country it's got
round-the-clock uninterrupted water and
electricity
two primary schools a health center
street lights
and a drainage system there's also wi-fi
cctv cameras put in key locations
and a public address system it covers
the regional's entire population
using 140 loudspeakers installed all
over the place
the project started in 2006. back then
the village was underdeveloped
homes didn't even have toilets within
six years time
it became a gem and then
there's the cleanest village in asia
malinong india got the title in 2003.
the village became a legend because when
you walk in
all trash and litter disappear the local
kids get their brooms and sweep the
streets from leaves and garbage before
heading to school
they're also responsible for emptying
the trash biodegradable things are
recycled and used as fertilizers
the village also has town gardeners who
make sure plants and flowers in the
footpaths
make someone's walk nothing but pleasant
it's not clear when this tradition
started but
some believe it was 130 years ago when
there was an outbreak
and the only way to control it was with
cleanliness
one of the villages that gets an award
for its creativity is uplan
a local man named tarzan had gone on a
trip abroad 70 years ago
he sailed there on a ship and in the mid
90s re-inspired by some nostalgia for
that wonderful journey
he decided to build a giant vessel on
the roof of his family's house
ever since the ship was constructed it
became a well-known
identifier for this family and their
home a few years later
someone else from the village got a lion
mounted on the water tank of his roof
he received a lot of criticism from some
of his village neighbors
but others were inspired a new trend
took over in the community
and spread to other villages in the
state of punjab
people started getting creative with
their rooftop water tanks as well
some come in the shape of an airplane
lotus eagle
kangaroo soccer ball tea kettle tank
you name it each person picks one that
matches their identity
others install them based on their likes
and past experiences
a bodybuilder goes for a muscle figure
others who travel to different places go
for
airplanes and ships someone said they
added the soccer figure because they
wanted to become a pro player
but never achieved it makes you wonder
what figure personal to you
would you put on your roof me a cookie